# Daily Workflow

## Pacing

Before you get into the daily routine, you should know that doing the
prepwork and following this routine is not a formula that guarantees
success. The goal of this course is understanding, so it's important
that you pace yourself accordingly. If you need to pause and sit with a
topic or find extra resources to help you, do it.

That being said, it's isn't necessary to dwell on one thing until you
understand it completely. Things later in the prepwork build on the
things at the beginning, so you will continue to practice things like
procs and methods throughout, and you'll see them in different contexts.
"Learn by doing" is one of our mottos here. By doing, eventually it will
become intuitive.

Even so, if you're attacking a problem and have no idea what's going on,
you should probably go back and review some of the previous material
until you have at least a jumping-off point. But if you review to the
point where you feel totally comfortable with the problem, you've
reviewed too much.

Your goal is to live in the _zone_&mdash;that healthy balance where you
know just enough to be dangerous and break stuff. In the zone, learning
feels more like playing. Your curiosity is activated and the questions
that arise naturally help you fill in the missing pieces. That's where
you'll learn the most. Feel free to tweak this process as needed to get
there.

## The Process

### Step 1: Do the Readings

Read the day's readings before starting the assignment. These will cover
the core concepts in the day's exercises, and are important to your
understanding of the material.

### Step 2: Complete the Exercises

Work through the exercises and projects in the order presented. Don't
worry if the material is difficult or you get stuck. Struggling forms
mental connections that make you a better coder.

When you get stuck, you may need to look some things up. This is a
normal part of writing code. Good resources include Google and Stack
Overflow as well as [Piazza][piazza] and [Slack][prep-course-slack]. Try
not to use the solutions as a resource. If you find that you're having
to peek at them in order to finish the problems, you should go back and
review until you can tackle the problems on your own.

Remember that this isn't a race. Your goal is understanding, not rote
completion. Stay in the _zone_.

### Step 3: Refactor

Refactoring is the process of restructuring existing code without
changing its behavior. Your first approach to a problem will never be
ideal; going back and refactoring your code is a good way to clean
things up, try new patterns, implement best practices, and become a
better programmer overall.

Don't spend too much time on this though. It's very easy to fall down a
rabbit hole here because as a beginning developer, you don't yet know
the patterns and concepts that make for clean code. That's okay. The way
you learn these patterns is by reading code, so make sure you leave
yourself time for the next step...

### Step 4: Read the Solutions

After you finish your own implementation and spend a little time
refactoring, look at the solutions. You should _always_ set aside time
for this step.

Learning to write code is actually similar to learning other forms of
writing like essays or poems. The more good literature you read, the
better the writer you'll become. Likewise, the more good code you read,
the better the coder you'll become.

### Step 5: Give Feedback

At the end of each day, you will be asked to give feedback on the
organization of the material and the effectiveness of instruction. We're
constantly working to fine-tune our curriculum, so please fill out the
[feedback form][feedback-form] to help us do this. Thanks!

[piazza]: https://piazza.com/appacademy.io/spring2016/aa101/home
[prep-course-slack]: https://app-academy-prep.slack.com/
[feedback-form]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1z5Vc9tIRRh6_k3DhVaokz4vm9mRVjelB8fUGJRU28ls/viewform
